# Nurture-the-Newborn
After riding the roller coaster of pregnancy for months, one expects to finally breathe a sigh of relief after the baby is welcomed to this world. That, however, is not the case since bringing a new life into being accompanies a ton of responsibility.
Surely the top priority of the majority of parents is keeping the baby nourished. It is recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) that infants up to six months old be breastfed exclusively. Breast milk consists mainly of lactose, proteins, and fats among other vital nutrients that are easily digested by the newborn and are necessary for a healthy growth. Furthermore, during breastfeeding antibodies and many essential vitamin and minerals are passed on from the mother to her baby, strengthening the immune system of the baby which makes them resistant to infections and inflammation. While nursing may be natural, some mothers, unfortunately, cannot breast feed for whom formula milk is a healthy alternative. Commercial infant formula milk, manufactured under sterile conditions, is tailored with the known nutrients of breast milk added to the contents to meet the standard nutritional requirements of non-breastfed infants. Most branded formula milk comprise of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and arachidonic acid (AA or ARA) as their main components, which are known to be significant for brain development. Moreover, age specific baby care products are available to cater to the varying nutritional requirement depending on the age of infants. 
On the other hand, skin care is equally important. Skin act as a form of defense from the outside world -  keeping it healthy is just as necessary as baby’s health and beauty. Newborn’s super soft skin is one of it’s innumerable precious attributes but is quite tender, fragile, and sensitive; studies have indicated that baby skin is far more active than adult skin as it’s continuously developing. Being thin, it is vulnerable to irritants, harsh chemicals, fragrances, and changes in humidity which can result in skin irritation, dryness, and rashes. Undoubtedly, infant skin demands utmost care and protection! 
Frequent bathing can rip moisture off the skin along with natural body oils and other substances that protect the baby from infections. Although the diaper area ought to be cleaned more often, babies need to be bathed two to three times a week at most with mild baby care products that are not formulated with any harsh, toxic chemicals. Angel Baby Shampoo and Body Wash is a popular vegan, all natural baby care product that contains organic oils, with no detergents, artificial foaming agents, sulfates, preservatives or fragrances. Several no-tear formulas are also available for purchase commercially that are not only gentle but are also less likely to irritate the baby's eyes. Infant skin can absorb moisture faster than adult skin, but it's true that it can lose water faster too! Since hydrated skin is healthy skin, it is a good idea to nourish your baby’s body with a gentle and mild product. After bathing, pat the baby dry and immediately condition them using All Natural Face and Body Moisturizer to leave the skin soft and supple. Furthermore, regularly massaging your child with Natural Baby Oil is recommended since it not only creates bonding between you and your little one but is also beneficial for the child’s health. Giving the baby a massage provides one - on- one time between the mother and the child and is a way of conveying your affection to the baby. It helps to soothe the baby, with the additional benefits of improving blood circulation, weight gain, and digestion and improving the overall health of the young one. Since there is no special technique of massaging, warm some oil in your palms and rub it gently yet firmly over the baby’s body while interacting with him playfully!
Apart from that, sunscreen should not be used on children that have not yet hit the six month mark owing to the sensitivity of the skin. Acknowledging that, infants under that age should not be exposed directly to sunlight; once the baby grows past six-month in age, seek a sunscreen with inorganic filters (like zinc oxide and titanium dioxide) which won’t irritate the baby’s skin and eyes. Since babies are susceptible to heat rash, dress them in loose clothing and wide brimmed hat to shield them from the sun. Also, sterilize baby accessories regularly and use dye and fragrance free detergents to wash the infant clothing in order to prevent them from developing skin allergies.
No wonder parenting may be an entirely new experience for you, it only needs a bit of practice before you get the hold of it. Cherish the moments you spend with your little one and enjoy the experiences this new soul brings to you. However, don’t forget to look out for yourself as well during the stressful days of parenthood. With that being said, don’t hesitate to ask for help if you need it and you’ll be good to go!
